d3-helper API
-------------

## General guidelines

**Function parameters.** Function parameter text is decorated in the following way: _Number_, _[Array]_, _{Object}_, _"String"_, _(Function)_. If one parameter can be of multiple types, then the use case will be noted in the description.

**Accessor methods.** Accessor methods behave as follows (unless specified otherwise):

* If _an argument of the right type_ is passed, the accessor sets the field's value to the argument
* If _an argument of the wrong type_ is passed, the accessor throws an exception
* If _no argument_ is passed, the accessor returns the field's value

## Base API

~ helper.**chart**(_"ChartType"_);

Returns a new chart object. Supported _ChartType_ values are:

* _"pie"_ - for a pie chart,
* _"donut"_ - for a donut chart.

Unknown _ChartType_ values throw _"Unknown chart type"_ exception.

~ helper.**graph**();

Returns new Graph object. The Graph object is the parent of all d3-helper objects.

~ helper.**version**();

Returns d3-helper version information string in _"major.minor.bugfix"_ form.

## Graph

Graph represents the base object of a visualisation generated by d3-helper. It defines attributes that are shared across all chart types, such as the height and width of the graph.

~ helper.graph().**d3**(_{D3}_);

Accessor. Gets / sets D3 field, which stores the D3 result of d3-helper's actions.

~ helper.graph().**data**(_[Data]_);

Accessor. Gets / sets graph data field. Data must follow the convention defined by a given chart type in order for it to be visualised. Generally, the data is structured in an array of key-value anonymous objects.

~ helper.graph().**height**(_Height_);

Accessor. Gets / sets the height of the graph's SVG element.

~ helper.graph().**target**(_"Target"_);

Accessor. Gets / sets identifier of parent DOM element the graph will be appended to.

~ helper.graph().**width**(_Width_);

Accessor. Gets / sets the width of the graph's SVG element.

## Chart

Chart is the base object for all charts. It defines general attributes and methods used by all chart types.

~ helper.chart(_ChartType_).**colorScale**(_(D3ColorScale)_);

Accessor. Gets / sets chart color scale. _D3ColorScale_ must be a D3 scale object. A chart's color scale defaults to _d3.scale.category10()_.

~ helper.chart(_ChartType_).**graph**(_{Graph}_);

Accessor. Gets / sets the base graph object.

~ helper.chart(_ChartType_).**xScale**(_(D3Scale)_);

Accessor. Gets / sets chart scale for the horizontal axis. _D3Scale_ must be a D3 scale object. A chart's horizontal scale is undefined by default.

~ helper.chart(_ChartType_).**yScale**(_(D3Scale)_);

Accessor. Gets / sets chart scale for the vertical axis. _D3Scale_ must be a D3 scale object. A chart's vertical scale is undefined by default.

### Bar

**Data format.** Data is structured as key-value pairs inside an anonymous object. For example:

```javascript
var data =
[
  { key: "Apple", value: 10 },
  { key: "Banana", value: 20 }
];
```

~ helper.chart('bar').**baseline**(_"Baseline"_);

Accessor. Gets / sets the position of the bar chart's baseline (the axis from which the bars stem) on the graph. Supported values are:

* _"bottom"_ - the baseline is in the graph's bottommost position and bars are drawn upward,
* _"left"_ - the baseline is in the graph's leftmost position and bars are drawn to the right, 
* _"right"_ - the baseline is in the graph's rightmost position and bars are drawn to the left, 
* _"top"_ - the baseline is in the graph's topmost position and bars are drawn downward.

~ helper.chart('bar').**draw**();

Draws the bar chart.

~ helper.chart('bar').**label**(_"Dimension"_, _"Location"_);

Accessor. Determines whether a data dimension will be labeled on the graph. Supported values for _Dimension_ are "key", and "value". Supported values for _Location_ are "inside-bottom", and "outside".

~ helper.chart('bar').**labelPadding**(_LabelPadding_);

Accessor. Pads all labels by _LabelPadding_ width.

### Pie

**Data format.** Data is structured as key-value pairs inside an anonymous object. For example:

```javascript
var data =
[
  { key: "Apple", value: 10 },
  { key: "Banana", value: 20 }
];
```

~ helper.chart('pie').**draw**();

Draws the pie chart.

~ helper.chart('pie').**innerRadius**(_InnerRadius_);

Accessor. Gets / sets pie chart inner radius. Setting an inner radius produces a donut chart. There is virtually no difference between a pie and a donut chart instance, aside from the pie chart instance automatically setting a default inner radius.

~ helper.chart('pie').**label**(_"Dimension"_, _"Location"_);

Accessor. Determines whether a data dimension will be labeled on the graph. Supported values for _Dimension_ are "key", and "value". Supported values for _Location_ are "above", and "below".

~ helper.chart('pie').**labelOffset**(_LabelOffset_);

Accessor. Label offset is a scalar offseting the label text from the center of pie chart. The default value is 1, meaning the label won't be offset. Setting the label offset to 0.5 will have it closer to the pie's centre by half of its current distance from it. Setting the label offset to 1.5 will do the opposite - adjust the labels away from the pie's centre by half of its current distance from it.

~ helper.chart('pie').**labelSpacing**(_LabelSpacing_);

Accessor. Gets / sets the spacing between the labels. Spacing is only applied when there are two labels being drawn.

~ helper.chart('pie').**outerRadius**(_OuterRadius_);

Accessor. Gets / sets pie chart outer radius. Defaults to half of the smaller of the graph's size measures; meaning the pie chart fills the graph along either the width or height (or both) of the graph.

The _OuterRadius_ argument can be either a number or function. If set to a function, the function is called to update the outer radius value when the chart is drawn.

~ helper.chart('pie').**position**(_[XOffset, YOffset]_);

Accessor. Gets / sets pie chart position. Defaults to half of the smaller of the graph's size measures; meaning the pie chart 'sticks' to either the top or left side of the graph.

### Donut

The donut chart is a type of pie chart with an added inner radius. Therefore, all of the fields and methods defined in the pie chart are inherited by the donut chart. The donut chart differs from the pie chart in the sense that it has a set inner radius, while the inner radius for the pie chart is 0 by default.

**Data format.** Data is structured as key-value pairs inside an anonymous object, same as with the pie chart. For example:

```javascript
var data =
[
  { key: "Apple", value: 10 },
  { key: "Banana", value: 20 }
];
```
